Kneidlach Soup
Dec 17, 2022
Story
The entire van was trembling with the revving of the engine. The heat gauge was setting new records. Neighbours had come out to watch the spectacle, as if powerless to resist the mechanical mating call. His dad’s Birkenstock was bearing down on the pedal with the zeal of a dodo repeatedly trying to pass through a glass partition. It didn’t take an industrial engineer to tell the incline was too steep. His phone rang. Mom. If there was a worst timing award, she’d win every year. This was exactly where he didn’t want to be.
*	*	*
His dad was making a ruckus upstairs. Several closets opened and closed, boxes were shifted and turned out, clothes were rummaged through.
“What the hell is he doing up there? It’s been ten minutes already.”
“Probably getting that shirt of his,” his mom said, her bare feet crossed over the coffee table. She was watching some inane soap opera in Turkish on the telly.
“What shirt? Why would he need a special shirt to move a desk?”
“He’s got this shirt he always wears when he's moving stuff. Now shoosh, Darash might actually be getting a promotion this time.”
A muffled exclamation of triumph erupted from the second floor. Aaron leaned back on the sofa and craned his neck. His dad was coming down the stairs with heavy trudging steps, arms and head twisted unnaturally halfway up a shirt, as if trying to burrow into it. The world’s hairiest contortionist.
“Come on, dad… Do you have to wear that?” Aaron asked.
His mom took one glance and scoffed.
“What? It’s my moving shirt.”
	He finally managed to pull the tank top all the way down. It was white. In a past life. Now it was so discoloured by age and wear and sweat stains it had turned into the kind of yellow that white becomes when it gets hepatitis. Dark curly belly hairs peeked through several small holes and tears in the bottom half, like so many tiny peepholes. He was wearing his gold chain necklace, which may have been in style thirty years ago among those of a wannabe-mobster persuasion. To his credit, he still had a full head of short, curly, silvery hair.
“It’s a wife beater, dad. I have friends who live on that street. Do you want them to think I come from an abusive home?”
“Oh, you’re talking nonsense.” He caressed Cheetos as the cat padded up to him, meowed, and curled stiffly around his leg with its tail raised. “See, the cat likes it.”
“You look like a thug from Streets of Rage. Whatever, let’s just go, we’re late, Mrs. Donovan is waiting.”
“Are you feeling okay, hon?” his mom asked. “You’re being short with us today.” Before he had a chance to protest a hand smacked him on the forehead and she took his temperature. “Yes, you’re a little hot.”
“It’s ninety degrees in here. A corpse would be hot.”
“I’ll make you kneidlach soup. Jewish penicillin.”
“I don’t need soup. I need for dad and I to leave now because we are late.”
	“I’m making you soup.”
*	*	*
The white van parked outside was a loan from their neighbour, Bortos. A colourful, sun-faded illustration of a smiling pig who couldn’t be happier at being skewered on what might as well be a spear decorated the side of the van, with the words “The Stuck Pig” written in red cursive letters below it.
Bortos was a friend of the family. He ran a non-Kosher butcher’s shop that he inherited from his dad, Bartos, and said they could use his meat van this weekend. He said they could even turn on the refrigeration system in the back if they wanted to. They told him they were moving a desk. He said wood can expand in heat, to keep it cool. When they told mom they were going to use a white meat van she shrugged and said who cares what colour the van is. They thought it best not to clarify.
The cab smelled of cigarettes and cabbage. Aaron rolled down the window. It was the manual sort, with a hand crank. The dashboard was made from fibreglass, which he knew because a hole had been punched through on the passenger side and the innards were showing - a tangle of red and white cables that protruded through the gap.
The seatbelt on his side was jammed. His dad said not to worry, it was a short drive.
“Guys! Could you get me a bagel?” His sister was standing at the front door in pink pyjamas and striped pink-and-white fuzzy socks.
“Can we get her a bagel?” Aaron asked.
“Sure, we’ll swing by Houdini’s on the way back. Ask her what kind.”
“She always gets the same kind.”
“Ask her.”
He did.
“She says Everything with cream cheese.”
“That’s what she always gets.”
“I know.”
They both waved goodbye. His dad put the van into gear, and they pulled away.
*	*	*
Sunrise Highway was not busy. Not yet, anyhow. The beachgoers and day trippers were late risers. Midday flamingos. The meat van cruised along as much as a meat van could cruise. The sky was clear and a cool breeze carrying the industrial smell of the nearby factories was flowing through the window and cleansing the musty cab. They pulled into Spruce Street and passed along a dozen cookie cutter houses that were no different to the ones in their neighbourhood. Aaron sank low in his seat.
	“Heeey, isn’t that Matty?”
	“Yup, and his friends.”
	“Love that kid, funny as hell. Not as funny as your old man, but funny. You should invite him over before you leave.”
	Aaron straightened up again once they passed the group, and watched them getting smaller in the side-view mirror. “Unlikely, we’re not exactly on speaking terms anymore.”
“What? Since when?”
“Since he beat the living shit out of me, dad.”
	His dad just barely managed to stifle a laugh, but got it together, glanced at him, and asked with as much sincere concern as he could muster without cracking up: “When- When was this?”
“In eighth grade, four years ago. Don’t you remember? I came home bawling my eyes out.”
“Well, you always were a little crybaby.” His dad mussed up his hair.
	Aaron pulled away and used the mirror to make sure his hair was perfectly casually unkempt again. He’s probably going to talk about Scott whats-his-face now.
	“Did I tell you about the time I headbutted Scott Wornick in front of the entire school?”
	Wornick, that was it.
“No, dad, tell me.” Resistance was futile. Once he got going, there was no way of derailing that story. The only recourse was to see it through.
“One day, in gym class, he was teasing me endlessly, throwing those red dodgeballs at the back of my head, calling me names, and what have you. I told him let’s meet in the yard in recess. Everyone came to watch. He walked up to me and — bam! Before he knew it, I headbutted him square in the face.” He demonstrated on an invisible foe. “He fell right on his butt. Never messed with me again after that day.”
	“It’s a great story, dad.” It actually was. He used to love hearing it when he was younger. “There, that’s Knoll Street.”
*	*	*
	The van reversed down the steep hill and eased into a curbside spot with the grace of an arthritic hippopotamus. It was only when his dad turned off the engine that Aaron realised how loud it had been this whole time.
	Mrs. Donovan was waiting for them at the door with a big smile and a bigger wave. Her shoulder-length brown hair glistened in the sun and would surely make her hairstylist proud. His friend Dylan lived down the street, and when Mrs. Donovan heard how that sweet boy Aaron was moving away to college and needed a desk, she offered to help with the zeal and enthusiasm of a missionary who had just found a lost soul that could still be saved.

	“There’s a van parked outside our house,” said Mrs. Stevens, peering through the gossamer curtains of her kitchen window as she was prepping breakfast.
	“One of the neighbours moving, maybe?” offered Mr. Stevens, sipping his coffee.
	“No, it’s not a moving van. It’s a — meat van.”
	“Maybe just a delivery then.”
“Well, I don’t like how close it’s parked to our fence. Not one bit.”

	“Hey Mrs. Donovan!”
	“Aaron! It’s so good to see you. And you, Leon!” Her face contorted into a wince when the senior of the two came closer. “Ooo, that shirt had seen better days.”
	“It’s my moving shirt.”
	A raised eyebrow suggested she didn’t know what that meant. She hurried them inside before the neighbours would see.
	The Donovans’ living room was taken straight out of a Pottery Barn catalogue. Solid mahogany cabinets and dining set, cream sofas that looked so comfortable a heavenly choir probably played when you sat on them, and a glass-top coffee table stacked with a couple of oversized books about interior design or some such that a Swedish guy wrote for no one ever to read. The desk, an elegant construction of wood and metal with three, tiered, industrial-looking drawers on one side, was by the door to the balcony on the far end of the room.
	Aaron beamed. He could already picture it in his dorm room, under a blown-up Pink Floyd poster, the one with the women sitting by the pool, and him under a lamp, poring over a book. Gosh, even in his fantasies he was a nerd.
	Mrs. Donovan brought in a cold, perspiring pitcher of homemade cucumber-and-mint water. She left it on the coffee table and took the tray back to the kitchen. After they had both sipped the lip-smackingly-good drink, they positioned themselves on either side of the desk.
	“Alright, son, you grab that side and I’ll—”
	A cat meowed.
	His dad looked down. The Donovans’ cat had long white fur mottled with grey spots, and seemed the prissy type. It probably ate better than half the kids at school. It was now pawing at the sliding glass door leading to the backyard. His dad opened it instinctively, and it nipped through the narrow gap.
	“That’s a very cute cat you have there, Elise,” he said loud enough for her to hear.
	She bobbed her head through the kitchen doorway. “Oh, Humphrey is practically a son to me. Doesn’t give me an attitude like my real son, either, hah! Just don’t let him out, he’s an indoor cat.” She was gone again.
	They shared a look, still holding onto the desk.
An indoor cat.
Outside.
They both knew what that meant, the gravity of the matter. There were bigger things at play here than a mere desk.
“That cat is no Cheetos,” his dad said.
	“No.”
	“It’ll get ripped to shreds.”
	“Most definitely.”
	 “Long Island squirrels are tough.”
	“They’re ruthless.”
Cheetos was allowed to go outside. Just try to stop him. He was a battle-hardened veteran who had once brought in the carcasses of not two, not three, but four possums — an entire family — and a hedgehog, all on the same day. It was not clear whether the hedgehog had been adopted by the possums and therefore had to go down by association, or had simply witnessed the massacre and therefore had to be silenced. There was not a cat on their street who didn’t tremble at Cheetos’ approaching shadow. Humphrey, on the other hand, seemed as soft and docile as a pincushion. In all likelihood, he probably wouldn’t last the afternoon out there.
“We have to tell Mrs. Donovan,” Aaron said.
His dad nodded at first, then sucked his teeth.
“What is it?”
“It’s just— it’s just that I’m in the bowling league with her husband, Carl, you see, and I just don’t want things to get awkward between us, you know? Like I’m the guy who let an indoor cat out, what a monster, stay away from him?”
“That makes total sense,” said Aaron. “I’ll buy you some time. Older ladies love me, erm, in a… non-perverse kinda way.”
“Son, you know that your mom and I are not proud of you, but this right here, you stepping up like this, it might be the turning point.”
“Thanks dad, good luck.”
“Just kidding, immensely proud of you. Be right back.”
He had never seen his dad move so fast. It was like a ninja had been lying dormant in those fifty-year-old bones just waiting for destiny to call it into action. He slipped out through the sliding door and closed it behind him all in one swift motion.
*	*	*
“And that’s how you make cucumber water. For the third time.”
“Oh, right,” said Aaron. “So the cucumber goes in before the mint. I think that’s where I got it wrong the first two times. I’m pretty sure this time it stuck, though.”
Mrs. Donovan was standing with arms akimbo and her head slightly cocked to one side, and crinkled her nose at the mess on the countertop.
	“Ever considered starting your own cooking show from home?” Aaron asked.
	Mrs. Donovan snort-laughed. “A cooking show? Oh my, in this old kitchen…”
	Aaron could hear a whisper like leather sighing coming from the living room. He leaned back and caught a glimpse of his dad sneaking back inside with Humphrey in the crook of his arm.
	“Right, I better be getting back to that desk, Mrs. Donovan. Again, I can’t thank you enough.”
	He left her to clean up a week’s worth of cucumbers and was about to congratulate his dad when he noticed the state he was in. He looked bedraggled. A couple of fresh red scratch marks ran diagonally across his right cheek, a few small twigs dangled from his tank top, which itself had been soiled with mud and torn at the bottom. The little escapee was nowhere to be seen. He must have sauntered upstairs after his little excursion.
	“Do you wanna talk about it?” Aaron asked.
	“Still processing it,” his dad said and patted the table. “Let’s get this baby loaded.”
	They lifted the desk. It was level for exactly the second it took Aaron to realise how heavy it was, and then it travelled lopsided. They carried it through the living room, manoeuvring it carefully around the sofa and avoiding the wall cabinets. Aaron caught his breath at the door. They thanked Mrs. Donovan, then got out, ensuring the door was closed behind them in case Humphery got adventurous again.
	The interior of the back of the van was not unlike a low budget horror film. Meat hooks dangled from the ceiling. Faint blood stains that no amount of chemicals would ever fully wash off adorned both side walls. Had they not known Bortos so well, they might have suspected this to be the scene of a grisly murder.
	His dad climbed onto the bed and helped heave the desk inside. Aaron climbed in after him and together they lashed it securely to one side of the van. Should the earth open up beneath them and swallow the van whole with them inside, one thing was certain, that desk was not moving an inch.
*	*	*
	“Well, a minor setback, but otherwise smooth sailing,” his dad said once they were back in the cab.
	“Yup.”
	“Let’s get this baby on the road.”
	“Don’t forget, bagels for Lily.”
	“Right you are, next stop, Houdini’s.” His dad turned the key in the ignition, put the van into gear, and off they went.
	Annnnnd off they went.
	The van wasn’t moving.
	It was making all the sounds that usually accompany movement, but it was doing so in situ. To be fair, it was moving a little. A little bit forwards. Then a little bit backwards. It was doing that again and again. The van was purring so loudly that some of the neighbours had come to their window to see what the fracas was all about. Some had even stepped outside to get a better look, Mrs. Donovan not being among them, strangely. His phone rang. It was his mom. He picked up and told her he’ll call her back, that it wasn’t a good time.
	“I think she doesn’t have enough juice,” his dad said.
	“Yeah… Hill’s too steep. So what now?”
	“Don’t worry, I’ve got one more trick up my sleeve.” His dad shifted the gear back into park mode, pulled the handbrake, and held the clutch. He then put the gear back into first, pushed down on the pedal, and immediately shifted into second gear.
	“Dad, why are we going backwards?”
	“Uhh…”
	The van juddered as it hit something behind them, and they could hear a sound like a pile of stones tumbling over.
	His dad pulled the handbrake, more for good measure than anything else because whatever it was they had hit had already braked for them, and they both got out to assess the damage.
	“Excuse me, sir!” a woman’s voice called. “Excuse me!”
	She was coming towards them fast. She reached them at the same time they reached the back of the van, and they could see that the rear bumper had knocked over a section of a low stone fence, presumably hers.
	“Look at this damage!” she said. “My fence! And you nearly hit my tree too.” She looked up at an old oak tree whose branches were overhanging the stone wall.
	His dad apologised profusely, but the woman was so distraught she kept going on and on about her wall and her tree, her tree and her wall.

In the corner of his eye, Aaron saw a figure in the distance. At first he thought it was Dylan, but then he remembered he was away this weekend at his grandparents’. A feeling of dread came over him when he realised it was Matt and his buddies coming down the street. They saw the van. They saw him. They laughed.

His dad promised to fix the fence. He said it would be good as new, better than new! They exchanged numbers. The woman eventually calmed down, wiped her tears off, and went back inside. His dad went off to the side and made a phone call.
A few minutes later, they were both back in the van.
“Not such smooth sailing after all?” Aaron said, smiling encouragingly.
“Nope.” His dad smiled back.
“What’s the plan, then?”
“I called Bortos. He’s coming. He’s bringing the Bortos Brigade.”
The Bortos Brigade consisted of Bortos himself, his brothers Berto and Broto, and their father, Bartos. Together they were unstoppable, a kind of Eastern European A-Team.
“No way, the entire Brigade?”
“Yup, and they’re bringing their ginormous pick-up truck. They’re going to pull us out and, check this, they’re also going to fix the fence.”
“They deserve a freakin’ medal. There should be one, you know? A medal for small heroic deeds. Speaking of heroic deeds, mind telling me what the hell happened with Mrs. Donovan’s cat?”
“Oh that. It’s still a little raw.”
“You know, keeping things inside is unhealthy. They fester.”
“You have a point. So, I’m pretty sure Humphrey has never been clipped.”
“Clipped?”
“Neutered.”
“Oh.”
“He wasn’t in the backyard when I left. I peeked over the fence at the neighbouring yards. He wasn’t there either. I then leapt over the fence to the next yard over— What?”
“‘Leapt’?”
“I… awkwardly climbed over the fence to the next yard over. I eventually found him in someone’s garden. He… had company.”
“Another cat?”
His dad held up two fingers.
“Two?! Two other cats?”
“Yup, and they were in the middle of a ménage à trois, or should I say, a ménage à meow.”
Aaron rolled his eyes. “Continue.”
“Anyway, I knew time was of the essence, and I couldn’t let Monsieur Humphrey violate the neighbours’ cats like that. I tried shooing the other cats away, but they were all so caught up in the moment, or should I say, meowment—”
“Please! No more cat puns.”
“Right, so I decided to just dive in there, like a soldier into a fray. I grabbed Humphrey, and that’s when all three of them came at me. It was like a scene from Edward Scissorhands.”
“Yikes.” Aaron looked out the front window. Matt and his little posse were gone. Probably got bored when there was no more action and left. He told his dad about earlier.
“Look, don’t mind him. The Scotts and Mattys of the world don’t amount to much later in life.”
“Isn’t Scott like the CEO of a major corporation?”
	“Okay, that was a bad example. Usually, usually they don’t amount to much.”
	“Right. Oh, damn, I forgot to call mom back. I really hope she made me that kneidlach soup after all. Also, we need to get Lily a bagel. Can we, still?”
“Of course we can, yes, of course.”
