Space Rats
Oct 7, 2022
Story
    The new hyperdrive carburettor has arrived. I set the box on the table and rotate it a few times. It’s scuffed and bears stamps and stickers from at least three planets. I open it with a pair of scissors and set the carburettor on the workbench.
    The foreman, Larry, comes in wearing a spacesuit and cradling a helmet in the nook of his arm. He must have been on a spacewalk. I tell him this carburettor is used and that I thought we had ordered a brand new one.
    “I got a good deal on a secondhand one,” he says.
        He sets the helmet on the workbench next to the carburettor.
    “The captain gave us enough budget for a new one,” I say.
    “I bought this one for cheap and used the rest of the money on a new hoverboard for my son,” Larry says. “Abuse the system or the system will abuse you. Now, do me a favour and install it.”
    “Okay,” I say.
    I take the part and walk down the long corridor to the engine room. I greet Antwan and Gethin who are working on the Hyper Beast. Like me, they are both wearing the standard-issue orange jumpsuit of the Intergalactic Engineering Division.
    They see the carburettor in my hands and say it’s about time we got a new one. I decide not to tell them it’s secondhand. They threaten to quit every other day as it is because we’re always cutting corners.
    We take out the old carburettor. It’s no easy task because the bolts are all but fused to the frame. Way back when, we would have to alert the entire crew that we won’t be able to go into warp speed until the replacement is done. Now luckily we have a backup hyperdrive.
    We clean out the mounting space before installing the new-ish part because it’s grimy with old grease and littered with rat droppings. The rats on the ship have been giving us hell. They eat through the wiring and leave rice-shaped droppings everywhere. Every now and then we find a dead one who had chewed on a live wire and got electrocuted.
    I told Larry about the rat problem, and he said that every spaceship has rats and that I will just have to suck it up. I told him I will.
    Finally, we get the new-ish carburettor in and it begins turning. Slowly at first, then so fast it becomes a blur.
    Antwan offers me a beer to celebrate a job well done. I tell him no thank you and that I don’t drink. He insists so I take it.

    That night I dream about rats chewing through important wiring causing complete engine failure. I see us floating deadstick in the vast emptiness of space with no hope of rescue.
    The last thing I remember when I wake up is cheese. I go down to the lower decks and into the engine room and nearly drop my coffee mug. The entire engine room is engulfed in flames. Our fire alarm had stopped working six months ago. Larry got money to fix it, but he used it to buy his son a GameStation 5200 instead.
    I panic. I see Larry pacing back and forth and he seems distraught. I ask what happened and he says the secondhand carburettor exploded during the night.
    “This is not good,” I say, “but at least we have a backup hyperdrive.”
    “The rats ate through the backup’s wiring. It’s out of commission.”
    “This is not good,” I say.
    “Listen, I’m going to go spend the last few minutes we have left with my family. Maybe we’ll even make it to an escape pod. Someone will need to stay behind with the engine. I think it should be you.”
    I want to say something, maybe protest, but I just nod instead.
    Larry, Antwan, and Gethin all pat me on the back as they rush past me and say what a great guy I am.
    I think about dousing the roaring flames with the fire extinguisher, but I would have to put down my coffee for that. Instead, I go to the bay window and stare out into the void of space. I watch as the escape pods fire out in all directions. I take a sip from my coffee. I look down and notice that a rat, probably sensing the impending doom, has scurried out from its hole and is sniffing at my boots. At that moment I think that maybe I should have insisted a bit more on setting a few glue traps. I have another sip. Oh well.
