Weekend Walruses
Oct 24, 2022
Story
	This was the whitest the walls in Room 64 of the Bayview motel had ever been. The lichen green wallpaper, depicting the faded outlines of different dog breeds, had been outdated the day it was put up forty years ago. And now all the dogs looked like poodles, bespeckled in fluffy white powder as they were. Two-Nicks Stevie was looking down at the growing red stain spreading out of where his spleen used to be, ruining the crocodile-skin shirt he only wore on special occasions. The brick of cocaine on the table had been blown to smithereens, the ashtray next to it holding a still-smoking cigarette.
	Everybody in town knew Two-Nicks Stevie. He had a sprawling black tribal tattoo circling his neck. He also had no neck. It was more a short stump that grew out of a pair of stocky shoulders. He was just over five-foot tall. He went to the gym five days a week, and wore tight-fitting shirts that brought out his hard-earned pecs. He was a drug dealer.
	The local youth knew that to score some weed, all they had to do was walk over to the black Sedan that was perennially parked outside the supermarket and rap on the tinted glass. Once the cloud of smoke would clear through the rolled-down window, Two-Nicks Stevie’s face would greet them with a chummy smile and a how’s-your-mom-doing. A twenty would get you enough for a fun evening or two with your friends.
	With grown-ups, it was a bit different. Sometimes they’d get in the car with him. Sometimes they were a little short. Arrangements could be made. They were after pills mostly. Uppers, downers, sidewinders.
	On Saturdays, Two-Nicks Stevie would go down to the wharf to look at the walruses basking in the sun and talk to the local fishermen. His old man had been a fisherman. Two-Nicks Stevie would ask them how the previous day’s catch had been. He’d then tell them that one day he’ll buy himself a boat and sail away from this stinkin’ place.
	In his line of work, one couldn’t be too cautious. Trust had to be earned. You could trust someone if they had a chance to steal from you and didn’t. So, to vet potential business associates, he would always have a couple of crumpled twenties wedged between the seats in the back of his car, and leave them on their own while he would go into the corner shop to buy cigarettes. Most of them ended up being forty bucks richer and a few teeth shorter.
	Not Danny. Danny passed every test he’d thrown at him. He was in his early thirties, with lank, drab, unwashed hair, slim shoulders, a permanent five o’clock shadow, and haunted eyes of a blue so pale they always reminded Two-Nicks Stevie of a Nat Geo documentary he’d once seen about the arctic.
	Together, they were going to accomplish great things. And the next big thing, everyone knew, was cocaine. This was the big league, but he couldn’t do it alone. It was too big a product to move, even for him.
	The Bayview motel was not at the bay, and didn’t have much of a view. It was so derelict and decrepit it was only a matter of time before the city condemned it. No one stayed here except for vagrants, ladies of the night, and the truly desperate.
	Danny was sitting in a worn, mangy, fabric lounge chair, yellow stuffing protruding from a large hole in one of the armrests. His steel toe cowboy boots were crossed over the coffee table. A cigarette hung limply from the corner of his mouth, and he was casually spinning the barrel of his six-shooter.
	Two-Nicks Stevie was pacing back and forth across the room like a caged lion. Every now and again he would walk up to the window, sweep aside the drab curtain, and look down to the street.
“They’ll be here soon, don’t stress,” said Danny.
“We can’t mess this up.”
“We won’t.”
Ten minutes later, Two-Nicks Stevie was beside himself with joy as he was hefting a one-kilo brick of top-grade cocaine wrapped in foil and shrink. He took a manila envelope pregnant with cash and handed it almost absentmindedly to Big Roger, who looked at him coolly through his inscrutable sunglasses, and passed the envelope on to one of his goons standing behind him, without so much as inspecting it.
The door came crashing open. Police officers in black uniforms barged into the room and ordered everyone to put their hands up. One of the goons made a move and an officer’s baton connected with his face, sending him reeling backwards and tripping over the carpet and onto the floor, where he stayed.
Danny stood up and walked over to the police officers, hands in the air, one of them still holding the gun but pointing it at the ceiling in a gesture of peace. He then turned around, levelled the gun at Two-Nicks Stevie, and told him it was over.
“You son of a bitch,” Two-Nicks Stevie said. “You goddamn narc sonofabitch.”
He eyed his own gun resting on the table next to another bulging brick of product.
Danny shook his head.
Two-Nicks Stevie went for it anyway.
Danny and two other officers discharged their weapons.
“You stupid idiot,” Danny said as he lit a cigarette and sat next to Two-Nicks Stevie, who had staggered back and slumped onto a rancid sofa.
He was clutching his bleeding stomach. His dimming eyes were looking around the room erratically, and he couldn’t understand why there were so many poodles everywhere.
